[I have this project deployed on netlify and you can check it out there](https://spell-check-stilt0n.netlify.app/)

## About

A while back I made a project that is based on this [Peter Norvig blog post](https://norvig.com/spell-correct.html), where he talks about the basics of how to write a spelling corrector.  What I think is really cool about Norvig's spelling corrector is that it showcases how little code you need to correct spelling at a basic level.  I wanted to try to see if I could write a JavaScript clone of that spelling corrector (Norvig's is written in Python) and keep it close to as few lines by taking advantage of map/filter/reduce methods and some of the more modern JavaScript features.  I think the code work pretty close to as short, but since I'm trying to emulate list comprehensions, sometimes I end up combining map and filter, which is probably not super effecient.  Nevertheless, for single words, this runs fast enough to use it in real time which is pretty cool.

This project is a remake of that my old command line JavaScript spellchecker.  I've converted the spelling corrector itself to TypeScript (a strange thing to do, since my original goal was brevity) and written a GUI for it in React.  The app listens for user input and updates its estimated correction each time you type a letter.  This is quite a bit of spell checking to do, and I'm pleasantly surprised how quickly the app performs.  It doesn't currently check sentences, and the app seems to run slow if you input a lot of characters.

While my original idea was just to remake my old JavaScript remake (a lot of remakes).  I am now thinking of seeing if I can incorporate a language model into the spelling corrector.  For single words, you wouldn't see a difference, but for sentences, I imagine even a simple bigram model would substantially improve the performance.  Basically, instead of checking from the set of candidates that require the least edits and choosing the most frequent word, you could keep track of all the candidates within edit distance 2 (like in this app) and then choose candidates in a way that minimizes the bigram perplexity of your corrected sentence.  Conveniently, I've already built an n-gram language model in Python, so it'd just be a matter of rewriting the model in TypeScript and then slightly modifying the original spelling corrector.  I'm hoping to get time to make that improved version this weekend.

### A note about the highlighting:
At the moment, my app is setup to highlight differences between the original word and the corrected word in red.  I think it's a pretty cool feature, but it'd be even cooler if it actually highlighted the corrections.  For this it'd need to work a little differently because a word can be corrected by using insertion or deletion.  I'd also want to add an additional color (or maybe use strikethroughs) to signify when a word has been deleted.
